# Portfolio-Machine-Learning

Here are various projects that I have developed involving Machine Learning 

* "MalariaDetectionSystem.ipynb" is a project developed as a result of a course carried out with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The main objective here was, to determine, given a certain image of a cell, whether it was parasitized with malaria or not. In total there were 24,958 train and 2,600 test pictures. Image processing algorithms were used to achieve this task. In first place, the data was prepared and loaded for an exploratory analysis. The images were normalized and the balance in the data was checked so that no bias was introduced into   the system. After that, statistical scenarios were drawn from the data such as the mean and how do cells look like for infected and uninfected cases. Then some image algorithms were tested to see how did the images interact with them (such as Gaussian Blurring). Finally clasification models were created to make a system that could determine if a cell was uninfected or not. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) were created for this purpose.

  4 different models were created to achive this project's objective using CNNs which had different hyperparameters and accuracy results. From this, one final model     was selectec which had 98.26% accuracy and 14 hidden layers, which resulted in more than 1,000,000 parameters. From this, it was concluded that the model could be     further improved prioritizing certain failures (false negatives are critical in medical cases). Also, it was hypothesised that more train and test images could lead   to better results. 


* We have "MarketingCampaign_bank.ipynb". The project's main objective was to knwo how to connect and interact with an SQL database using python. The data corresponds   to a bank's   marketing campaign results. Here demographic and financial values are substracted from a group of people, along with whether the marketing campaign       was successful or   not.

  This project first shows how to create a PostgreSQL database using python code. After that, a CSV is converted to a suitable format that could be translated to the     aformetioned platform. Then, some questions were stated to solve using this information; this ranged from simple questions using basic SQL commands to retrive basic   statistic values of the to the use of classification algorithms to predict whether the marketing campaign would be successful in certain profiles of people.

  For this last part, an Exploratory Data Analysis was carried out to evaluate whether certain factors could affect the success of this campaign: existence of loan,     existence of deposits and their balance. After this, the data was cleaned: elimination of outliers, creation of dummy variables, amongst other procedures; so that     data classification algorithms could be performed. Supervised learning algorithms were used for this: logistic regression, k-nearest neighbour and decision tree.       Each one yielded different results (decision tree being the most accurate one) and different conclusions were drawn from all this methods, the most important being     that there was a correlation between the factors metioned above and the success of the bank's marketing campaign.

* "CIFAR10_Classificator" was a project that aimed at creating a Graphical User Interface (GUI) that could classify images selected by the user. The objective here was to create an interface that could interact with an already trained CNN. The first steps here were to load the CIFAR10 dataset (which contains 10 different classes) and visualize examples of the information. After this, the train and test data was normalized and pre-processed before a neural network was applied. After this, a neural network with 2 layers was proposed using 'relu' as the main activation function with an Adam optimizer; this was only for procedural purposes without the objective to fully maximize accuracy since the objective was to incorporate it in a GUI instead. After this, it was tested and the results achieved a 68.1% accuracy. Then the data generated for the model was saved in a file with '.h5' extension. Finally a GUI was created using the Tkinter library of python. Only two buttons were incorporated: one to upload images and other to classify them according to the weights assigned by the model. As expected, the model could be used in the GUI and images were classified according to the accuracy achieved.
